want to go back to Rob Reynolds who's on
the outside of the encampment uh he's
been bringing us up to date from the if
you like the police action on his side
uh Rob tell us what is going on
now right now the police are pushing the
protesters back they're quite close you
can probably see as they step aside the
uh police in their uh clear plexiglass
helmets and visors they've been moving
this group of people uh steadily
backwards uh and getting reinforcements
uh from uh other other contingents of
police and periodically they will stop
and then they will move forward and push
uh it doesn't seem that they've arrested
anyone yet but they're getting quite
close to where we are right now so we'll
see if they if they make another move
forward the uh number of
protesters who are are still there
linking arms and trying to hold a line
has decreased greatly as the police have
moved forward
[Music]
um we're just looking at some pictures
from Reuters here on the other as you're
talking to us and we can see we just a
few moments ago we saw police officers
carrying some sort of weaponry and
aiming it at barricades I don't know
what kind of Weaponry that would be
um but it does look as though they
things are beginning to get more tense
because it looks as though somebody has
perhaps been firing maybe a fire
extinguisher or something towards the
the police uh from the through the
barriers and the police have seem to
have stopped whatever action that
they're that they're doing at the moment
Rob do you get any sense from where you
are that there are more police coming to
back up the officers the lines of
officers that are already there
[Music]
I think that there are plenty of police
where I am right now to be honest and
they've just knocked over a bunch of
protesters um so we're slowly stepping
backwards as
well and I think the police are moving
through
now uh they're
definitely clearing out this area those
Flash Bank still going on going off all
over the
place moving
back and police are saying move move
move the pro uh protesters are pushing
against the
police police have their batons out
poking them in the arms and in the sides
rob you mentioned before you hadn't seen
anybody being arrested is there any
indication that they might be about to
start arresting people we're hitting
us we're not hitting them
back no not arresting people yet just
pushing them back trying to disperse
them moving them step by step backwards
with the constant concussion of those
flashbangs um the uh the weaponry that
you mentioned Rob that could be the um
the the devices that are used to launch
these flash Banks also to launch um uh
chemical irritants tear gas or other
types of gas it's not always actually
tear gas but um those are they look sort
of like guns but they're not actually
rifles that may be what you've s you've
seen I don't think that the police are
using live fire at all I heard anything
like that we're just trying to push
these people back and remember these
people that we're seeing here this is
not the encampment we outside the
encampment but these are people who are
supporting the student protesters in the
Gaza solidarity encampment yeah Rob
we're just seeing pictures at the moment
of a couple of people who been taken to
one side of the uh from outside the
encampment they've been secured by zip
ties and they're currently kneeling on
the ground I don't know whether they're
being processed by arresting officers
but they're being held at the moment
tell us again you said that it was
beginning to get uh more tense where you
are tell us what's
happening well uh the police are
succeeding in pushing applying pressure
and pushing these protesters back
steadily uh
from uh the line that they formed
uh and you can see now here police
are moving
forward Rob this just back to what we
were talking about before peaceful
protest peaceful protest yeah sorry to
interrupt Rob there's a delay on the
line um this brings us back to what we
were talking about before where the
police are one would imagine very aware
of how many cameras are trained on them
at the moment and how they are going to
their behavior in this situation is
likely to be
judged absolutely they I mean they're
seeing our camera and uh of course
everyone in the crowd has a camera in
his pocket or her pocket and they're all
recording as well so now this police
line has passed through our position we
felt it was best to uh not uh uh keep in
front of them we're behind them now and
you can see that they are pushing these
protesters steadily backwards I think
they will be trying to get them off
campus Al together if that's
possible we're just seeing some aial
pictures now applying a lot of physical
pressure yeah we're just seeing some
aerial pictures Rob there's quite a lot
of smoke that's coming around from the
entrance to the that encampment whether
it's come from the the residue of the
fire exting extinguishes if that's what
it was it might be the residue of the
the flashbangs as well do give us a
sense if you can of the the the mood and
the atmosphere amongst the people who
have come there to support the
protesters how worried and concerned are
they about
this uh they seem to be generally pretty
Ang angry um the people are shouting you
know that they're peacefully protesting
and being uh being roughed up by the
police um and they are demanding that
the police uh you know keep their hands
off their our students as one their
chance was um so this group of people is
definitely
um being uh very resistant to the police
pressure uh their mood is pretty
frenzied I would say right now this is a
this is a high
intensity High emotion
moment
and and you can just see how it's going
there and you can see these police
officers is uh just a lot of them and
they're all in their protective gear
there's a young woman in the front there
being pushed steadily
backwards people are filming with their
smartphones and it's it's really it's
quite a scene it's quite an amazing
scene some of the officers in the back
of this line with their um zip tie uh
plastic handcuffs at the ready Rob tell
us about the kind of people that were
making up the crowds who were outside
the encampment those who were there to
supports those inside the
camp a mixture of students and people
from outside uh even ran into a couple
of people that I'd met on other stories
um some people who were wearing uh
clothing with sort of anarchist uh
symbols on them uh others uh who were
wearing a lot of people wearing cfas um
but these are people people who are very
often um
uh I guess uh often uh involved in
protests because they they appear to be
uh uh very used to this type of a
confrontation with police one of the
questions of course over the last few
days is who else has been joining these
protests on both sides uh of the
barriers what's your interpretation of
the people who have been there is there
any indication that those who are
supporting the protests are also the
crowds there are also including people
who are there possibly just to have a
fight with the police because of course
we have seen that elsewhere around the
world yes that's certainly possible it I
would
say yeah tell us where to
go just getting some uh from the police
there to stay out of their way um
certainly that's that's possible but I I
think that the more striking um group of
people who came not from this community
not from this campus not from the
student body or any of the faculty were
the pro-israel uh rioter frankly who uh
appeared here on uh uh uh more than 24
hours ago to violently attack the
student encampment those people were
definitely from somewhere outside of
this community and they were bent on
committing violence now um I can see a
great deal of smoke over there as well
let's just look over here if we can key
and this is again this is closer to the
uh this is the actual encampment a
corner of the encampment itself and I
can see lots of
smoke uh Rising there you can probably
see it
yourself so this this the police appear
to be
steadily making their way through the
encampment I no longer see the large
Palestinian flags being waved that I saw
all evening uh some of the boards in
that sort of
Palisade have been pulled
down and we're going to try to get it
little bit of a better Vantage Point Rob
to start to try to look inside the the
tent the uh the the camp itself Rob we
have a shot here which is top right of
our picture which is closer up to to the
gate there closer to where you are we
have seen officers there who have been
firing those weapons you were talking
about the ones we were discussing
earlier that seem to be firing those
weapons into the crowd as you were
talking about unlikely to be obviously
live fire it's very unlikely to be live
fire it's very unlikely to be of
anything of deadly force but certainly
used in order to push the crowd back
we're seeing more smoke uh being fired I
think towards the the the police
officers there again it may be fire
extinguishers that are being fired
there's a huge plume of it that's uh
come over now but this is this is really
the moment that it has been building up
to for the last several hours as you've
been telling us that there's you know
we've been leading to this this moment
of tension at which something
essentially had to give after a a
standoff for such a long
time exactly uh this is this is the the
climactic moment when uh the the police
force use of force and the determination
by the University Administration and
other officials to uh solve this what
they see as a problem uh you know this
is what what is happening now um uh
those uh projectiles they maybe they're
probably non-lethal projectiles
sometimes called rubber bullets that is
uh a term that uh belies how uh painful
those projectiles can be if one of them
hits you they're they're about this big
and they're they're hard like a hockey
puck so that would be no fun to get hit
with uh and uh
uh police are are um allowed to use
those of course and those would be used
in preference to any uh live fire I
think live fire would be used only in
very extreme case if police thought that
they were their lives were being
threatened is not the case here Rob
we're going to leave it there for the
moment we can see some shots also on
main screen there uh where we can see
some more people who are being uh at
least taken away their hands are being
bound by zip eyes um we don't yet know
as I say whether or not they're being
arrested and processed they may just be
removed from the the crowd we're going
to try and find out more about that
but make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer